<!--
GUIDING THEME:
This lesson should answer the question:
"If I were building an education AI startup, how would prompt-engineering help me?"

INTRODUCTION:
Identify 3 core concepts to teach.
Identify 3 learning goals to achieve.

CODE CHALLENGE:
If provided, should have an education focus - help show how the concepts can be applied to make the lives of teachers and students easier.
-->

We know that _Generative AI_ is capable of creating new content (e.g., text, images, audio, code etc.) in response to user requests. It achieves this using _Large Language Models_ (LLMs) like OpenAI's GPT ("Generative Pre-trained Transformer") series that are trained for using natural language and code. 

Users can now interact with these models using familiar interfaces & paradigms ("chat") without needing technical expertise or training. The models are **prompt-based** - users send a text input (or "prompt") with a request, and the AI responds with a text output (or "completion"). Users can then "talk to the AI" iteratively, in multi-turn conversations, to refine that prompt till the returned results meet their expectations.

Prompts are now the primary "programming interface" for generative AI apps. They tell the model what to do - setting model weights and influencing its resulting behaviors. **Prompt Engineering** is now a fast-growing field of study focused on the _design and optimization_ of these prompts to drive improved user experiences and response quality at scale.


## Learning Goals

In this lesson, we learn what Prompt Engineering is, why it matters, and how users can learn to craft more effective prompts for a given model and objective. We'll discuss best practices for prompt engineering, and learn to use an interactive sandbox (with Jupyter Notebooks and an OpenAI or Azure OpenAI API endpoint) to explore prompt engineering techniques interactively, with real examples.

By the end of this lesson you will be able to:
 1. _Define Prompt Engineering_ - Explain what it is & why it matters.
 1. _Describe Prompt Components_ - Understand prompt structure & usage.
 1. _Learn Best Practices_ - Know basic prompt engineering strategies & tactics.
 1. _Apply Learned Techniques_ - Work through real examples in interactive exercises.

## Learning Sandbox

The key takeaway fromt his lesson is that **prompt engineering is more art than science**. The best way to learn is with a trial-and-error approach that combines your intuition and domain expertise, with the recommended techniques and model-specific optimizations. To help you, we introduce a _sandbox environment_ with three components:

 - Jupyter Notebooks - Python-based prompt authoring & execution environment
 - OpenAI API key - Active service endpoint for the LLM (e.g., GPT-3.5, GPT-4)
 - Dev Containers - Consistent runtime in GitHub Codespaces or Docker Desktop

We provide _starter exercises_ to help you explore these techniques in practice. However, the real value of the sandbox is that you can author new prompts or modify existing ones, then test them interactively, to build your own intuition on effective prompt design.

## Our Startup
Before we dive into the lesson, let's think about how this topic relates to our broader mission to [bring AI innovation to education](https://educationblog.microsoft.com/2023/06/collaborating-to-bring-ai-innovation-to-education). Our startup is building a suite of AI-powered applications to drive **personalized learning experiences** and we want to target three kinds of users: _administrators, educators and students_.

Think how these users can "program" our AI-powered applications by authoring prompts focused on accomplishing a specific task or objective. For example:
 - An administrator can ask the AI to _analyze curriculum data to identify gaps in coverage_. The AI can summarize results in text, or visualize them with code.
 - An educator can ask the AI to _generate a lesson plan for a target audience and topic_. The AI can build the personalized plan and deliver it in a desired format.
 - A student can ask the AI to _tutor them in a difficult subject_. The AI can act like a coach, guiding students with lessons, hints & examples tailored to their level.
 
And that's just the tip of the iceberg. Check out [Prompts For Education](https://github.com/microsoft/prompts-for-edu/tree/main) - an open-source repository curated by experts for use in education applications keeping both prompt engineering and responsible AI practices in mind. Once you complete the code challenge section of this lesson, find more prompts in the repo and try them out in that sandbox.