<!--
LESSON TEMPLATE:
This unit should provide a code challenge if applicable

CHALLENGE:
Link to a Jupyter Notebook with only the code comments in the instructions (code sections are empty).

SOLUTION:
Link to a copy of that Notebook with the prompts filled in and run, showing what one example could be.
-->

Congratulations! You made it to the end of the lesson! It's time to put some of those concepts and techniques to the test with real examples!

## Code Sandbox

For our code challenge, we'll be using a sandbox with 3 components:
 - a Jupyter Notebook with exercises you can complete interactively.
 - a Dev Container that works with GitHub Codespaces or Docker Desktop
 - a Configuration File for envrionment variables (e.g., OpenAI API Key)

**To get started, fork the repo to your personal account, then launch the Codespace.** You can (alternatively) clone the repo to your local device and use it with Docker Desktop - you can choose to open the Notebook in your own Jupyter Notebook environment.

**Next, open the Jupyter Notebook** - and select the kernel. If you use the devcontainer option (GitHub Codespaces or Docker Desktop), you get the following benefits:
 - Visual Studio Code extensions for Python and Jupyter Notebooks installed
 - Python 3.10.x kernel option available
 - OpenAI API Key configured as environment variable

Just pick the Python 3.10.x kernel and you're ready to go!

**Configuring your OpenAI API Key** - the same Notebooks can be used with Azure OpenAI, with a few minor tweaks (to be added soon). For now, simply copy `.env.copy` file to a file called `.env` in the repository root directory, and set the value of the `OPENAI_API_KEY` variable to your API Key. You can find your API Key in your [OpenAI Dashboard](https://beta.openai.com/account/api-keys). _The Notebook script is setup to load the key from the environment variable._

Note: If you plan to use GitHub Codespaces exclusively, then consider storing your `OPENAI_API_KEY` as a [GitHub Codespaces Secret](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/managing-codespaces-for-your-organization/managing-secrets-for-your-repository-and-organization-for-github-codespaces#adding-secrets-for-a-repository) that you can now automatically apply to any repository you use with GitHub Codespaces.
 
## Code Challenge: 

The code challenge is a Jupyter Notebook with a series of exercises that you can complete interactively. The Notebook is designed to be self-descriptive, with each section having a _Markdown_ cell describing the exercise and a _Code_ cell where you can enter your solution.

**Once you complete the basic exercises, try using the notebook as a sandbox to write your own prompt engineering exercises, and explore the results.**

## Code Solution

Since prompt engineering is by nature stochastic, there are no _right and wrong answers_. Rather, the goal is for you to explore the techniques and tools, and see how they can be applied to your own scenarios.

**In that context, there is no separate Code Solution for this lesson. Instead, exercises will have commented out "My Solution" sections that you can uncomment and run to see one possible outcome.**